---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Performing WODs Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-26
published: true
labels:
  - Blog
---

<b>Summary of Most Recent WODs:</b>

For the past few weeks, we have been implementing the new skills we have learned both in our modules and in class in our WODs. Since my last blog post I have performed three more WODs: “BrowserHistory6”, “SmartPhoneProducts1 with Variables”, and “Invoice1”. In my “BrowserHistory6” WOD, I edited the html page I created in my previous WODs so that it would encompass 4 separate webpages, each explaining the history of various web browsers. I learned to link webpages together, incorporate buttons, and utilize onmouseover events. In “SmartPhoneProducts1 with Variables”, I learned how to reference JS variables in my HTML code, utilize <script> tags, and overall simplify and eliminate hard code. Whilst completing my “Invoice1” WOD, I learned how to utilize less hard code and more JS code. I utilized and practiced skills such as initializing and calling upon variables, blending JS and HTML code together, performing arithmetic with my JS variables, and inserting data into an HTML coded table. For more information please refer to this page: <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html">E3 Performing WODs Technical Essay</a>

<b>BrowserHistory6:</b>
  <br>
(1 attempt, 20:00min – Av)
  <br>
For this WOD I once again read the assignment’s instructions quite thoroughly before I started. I was fairly confident in what I already knew and how I could utilize it in this WOD. Overall, the instructions were quite straight forward so I didn’t really have to research the concepts too much before I started. I found the gif in the instructions to be quite useful because I could continually save my code and refresh my browser to make sure it looked like the gif throughout the entire time I was filming. Whilst coding I found that repeating the skills, copying and pasting, and switching between html files was a bit lengthily and repetitive (I think that I could have switched around better by utilizing more shortcuts). I do believe I referenced the instructional video once or twice to get some assistance but other than that it was pretty smooth sailing for this WOD. I think in the future I will prepare more before starting the assignment by search skills up on W3Schools. 

<b>SmartPhoneProducts1 with Variables:</b>
  <br>
(1 attempt, 8:30min – Rx)
  <br>
This WOD was pretty straight forward when reading the instructions as well as performing the actual assignment. I was able to implement the skills I had already learned in class and going through the exercise was smooth because of it. I don’t remember running into any hiccups whilst completing this WOD. The only thing that slowed me down was reading the instructions and determining what I was supposed to do. For this WOD I didn’t have to research any components on W3schools so I only skimmed the instructions before starting the assignment. I’m sure that if I had read the instructions more thoroughly I would have performed the WOD faster. 

<b>Invoice1:</b>
  <br>
(2 attempts, 25:30min – Av)
  <br>
I found this WOD relatively difficult but overall, very satisfying. As usual I decided to read the instructions of this WOD very thoroughly before I started any coding at all. If I didn’t understand something in the instructions, I looked the concept up on W3Schools first, read the articles associated with it, clicked through a few examples, and took notes. I really made sure that I understood the code (as much as I thought I needed to) before I even attempted to try the WOD. In my first attempt of this WOD I ended up coming across some issues in regard to referencing JS variables in my HTML code utilizing document.write and ${}. A lot of my coworkers are quite adept with coding languages, and I happened to be completing this WOD in my office so when I came across an issue with calling upon my variables I asked them for assistance and they, quite skillfully, prompted me with questions and hints so that I eventually understood how to write my code properly. With this WOD I refrained from referencing the instructional video until I though my end results were adequate because I didn’t want the answer just handed to me. I think that next time I will try to research EVERYTHING in the instructions as thoroughly as possible before I start my coding. 
  
  <b>Invoice2:</b>
  <br>
  (1 attempt, 00:00 - __)
  <br>
  
  <b>SmartPhoneProducts2:</b>
  <br>
  (_ attempts, 00:00 - __)
  <br>

<b>Preparation Improvements for Future WODS:</b>
  <br>
To enhance my WOD comprehensions and speed I will continue to implement the practices that have already been serving me well thus far. I plan on reading WOD instructions thoroughly before starting the assignment. I also plan on heavily researching and practicing skills that are unfamiliar to me before starting the WOD so that I can perform them with ease whilst being timed. I also want to implement more comments in my WODs so that I can go back and quickly identify what I was doing for certain steps (as long as this process doesn’t chip away at my time too much). I hope to improve my WOD performance in the future!
  
